CS111 LAB 1C README
Victor Kwan: 004151151
David Hung: 604191130

Finishing off the lab, we implemented parallelism in 1C. Initially, we thought 
    that we were working around parallelizing specific command trees (because 
    of how the spec was laid out and how the execute_command was written and 
    called) and worked around this constraint. Afterwards, we realized that we 
    were meant to parallelize across the entire *.sh file, so we adapted our 
    main.c to suit this purpose. The key observation we made towards our 
    parallelization of the command trees, and eventually, the *.sh files was 
    that the SEQUENCE_COMMAND will always occupy the top-levels of a command 
    tree. We derive this from the notion that on the operator stack, we follow 
    the paradigm:

    "A new operator is pushed to the stack if it has higher precedence than the 
        top operator. If new operator has lower or equal precedence than the 
        top operator, you have to iteratively pop the top operator out and 
        combine it with the top two commands." -- Jinha Kang
    
Which subsequently means that, with SEQUENCE_COMMAND having the least 
    precedence, we'll only pop SEQUENCE_COMMANDs with other SEQUENCE_COMMANDs. 
    We can therefore split each SEQUENCE_COMMAND into its left and right 
    branches to become parallelizable subtrees.

Our flow of execution for a parallel process differs from 1B as follows:
    1.  If the -t flag is called, we start by recombining each of the command 
            trees into one large tree connected with SEQUENCE_COMMANDs.
    2.  We use probe_sequence_command and populate_dependency_list to 
            recursively find SEQUENCE_COMMANDs without lower level ones. We
            populate a linked list of dependency-nodes this way.
    3.  For each of these dependency-nodes, we recursively use a post-order
            traversal of the subtree to populate inputs and outputs.
    4.  We subsequently iteratively populate the dependency array. To simplify
            "repeated dependencies" and to remove the need to delete from
            dependency lists, we maintain a boolean array of whether the node
            waits on another dependency at dependencies[i].
    5.  We cycle through the dependency_list with the following pseudocode:
    
        while the dependency list is not empty
            for each dependency node
                if the command is running
                    wait with WNOHANG
                    if the process has become a zombie
                        remove the process from other dependency arrays
                        remove the dependency node
            
            for each dependency node
                if the commmand is not running
                    fork()
                    if child process
                        execute the command
                    if parent process
                        set the dependency-node status to running
                        record the child pid
        
        manage the exit status on each of the SEQUENCE_COMMANDs
        
I felt that our execution of 1C was successful and, in fact, a more interesting
    interpretation of the problem. We parallelize in a deeper level and,
    furthermore, don't ever "wait" idly. The parent process loops until 
    completion. Although this does result in a greater system overhead, it also
    ensures that we achieve "real" parallelism rather than being bottlenecked
    by another process' wait.

-----
CS111 LAB 1B README
Victor Kwan: 004151151
David Hung: 604191130

Our implementation of Lab 1B was definitely more straight forward than that for 
    1A. We use a switch statement to navigate around the different cases of 
    commands, where the overall structure is modeled after a post-order 
    traversal of the tree. Statuses are initially set to -1 when we reach the 
    switch, and we update according to the WEXITSTATUS(status) macro 
    afterwards. Two things that stood out to us during our implementation were:

1.  The simplicity of implementing AND, OR, and SEQUENCE commands. The three 
        very much just differ in whether or not to execute the second command 
        depending on the exit status of the first command. 
2.  The complexity of the PIPE command. In particular, it was interesting 
        considering the different pipes that we would delicately have to close 
        in order to make sure that we don't have any file descriptor leaks.
        
That aside, our SIMPLE_COMMAND execution and SUBSHELL_COMMAND execution are 
    fairly unexceptional. The former is implemented by using dup2(...) for the 
    relevant I/O redirections and execvp in the child process to run the 
    command. The latter is simply to run the subshell command in a separate 
    fork and apply the exit status elsewhere.
    
Our provided test.sh (run directly as ./test.sh) allowed us to see whether or 
    not our operands executed in the correct sequence.

-----
CS111 LAB 1A README
Victor Kwan: 004151151
David Hung: 604191130

This implementation of make_command_stream is a fairly comprehensive look on 
	the requirements of the spec. It performs admirably on all of the test 
	cases (tested on both the SEASnet machines and Ubuntu on gcc version 4.8.1
	) and also addresses some of the concerns not necessarily tested in the 
	test cases. It also manages memory to a fairly reliable degree, so it 
	doesn't simply sap away at our memory resources. Perhaps the clunkiest 
	part of the implementation is to do with some of the error case checking: 
	an input of ">\n" is seemingly more concerned with the lack of 
	input/output as opposed to the command it's tied to – but this is simply 
	to do with the fact that our implementation checks for errors in all 
	steps of the process.

The function is broken down into three processes:
1.	Tokenization
	The tokenization process uses an enumerated "state" to determine if a 
		boundary is encountered and splitting is required. The output is an 
		array of cstrings.
2.	Splitting into command lines
	After tokenization, splitting the tokens into lines allows for easier 
		processing of command lines into trees. The procedure is quite 
		similar to that of tokenization, although on a larger scale, allowing 
		us to perform even more error checks.
3.	Generating the command trees
	The generate_command_trees function operates through the use of stacks. 
		The first part of the function serves to eat up tokens to form valid 
		commands. The second part of the function is largely the 
		implementation of an infix parsing of the commands and operands.
4.	command_stream
	We finish by putting each command into the command_stream queue. This 
		appeared to be the most appropriate structure because 
		read_command_stream merely needs to dequeue a node each time it is 
		called.